The deputy director of school education has announced new dates for the online admission process of first year junior college (FYJC). According to the release, the dates of filling of new admission forms online will be August 8 and 9 instead of the earlier dates of August 9 and 10. The first special merit list will be declared at 5 pm on August 11. The admission of students whose names come in a list can be done on August 12 and 13.

FYJC Online Admission 2017

While students have been asked to collect new login IDs and passwords from the guidance centres paying Rs150, they need not buy new booklets, claim education officials. New login IDs and passwords will be available at all guidance centers on August 5 and 6. Students who wish to change their allotted college, faculty, medium, subject, preference of colleges can apply for the same in the special round. Students should apply in this round without cancelling their present admission. They have been advised to check vacancies in colleges with the help of website. Meanwhile, a principal of a college in the western suburbs said, “Around 700 to 800 parents came to the guidance centre and created ruckus. But only one education officer has been deployed at the centre. The government has to think seriously about this.” An education official who does not wish to be named, said: “It is necessary that students pay Rs150 and purchase their new login IDs and passwords so that they can again participate in the online procedure of FYJC admission. It is better that students fill 10 to 15 options of colleges in the online form. Students who got colleges far from home and those who have not got ones of their choice, can participate in this process again.” This time, while filing online admission forms, students will have to fill a minimum 10 options of junior colleges instead of 35.

Related Jobs  poly. (Polytechnic) Admission 2017
FYJC  Online Admissions Started in Mumbai :

The moment the results for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations get declared, students gear up for taking admissions to Class 11th. Many students in Mumbai and Pune are on the run to get admission to FYJC. Admissions are made through common application forms that are applicable to all the junior colleges in Mumbai and Pune and available at nominal charges.

Online Admission Process :

In an online admission process, a student has to fill up a form online instead of physically going to different colleges and filling individual forms there. This process is recognised by all the junior colleges in both the cities and in fact a compulsory process to take admissions to the colleges. Students can choose their colleges and streams in the form as per their preferences.

Eligibility: Students must have passed Class 10th from a recognised board.

Admissions: Admissions are given on the basis of merit. On the basis of the marks secured in class 10th, streams are allotted to students. However, availability of seats in a particular college is also a crucial factor. A college can’t refuse to give admission to a student whose name has been mentioned in the merit list. If seats are not filled, colleges issue second merit list and then a final one (if the seats remain vacant).

Streams: Online admissions are conducted for the three main streams – Arts, Science and Commerce. However, following admissions are not done online. These are conducted by the respective junior colleges:
Admissions to Technical Junior Colleges
Admissions to Night Junior Colleges
Admissions to HSC Vocational (MCVC) and Home Science
Admissions to Management Quota, Minority Quota and In-House Quota
https://www.worldfreshers.in/2016/12/fyjc-online-admission-2017.html
